W-15111592-Autoscalng-GA (#185)
mulesoft/docs-hosting: cloudhub-2/modules/ROOT/pages/ch2-configure-horizontal-autoscaling.adoc

= Configuring Horizontal Autoscaling (HPA) for CloudHub 2.0 Deployments
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

[IMPORTANT]
This feature applies only to select customers who are opted into the new pricing and packaging model. For more details, visit xref:general::pricing.adoc[].

> You can configure CPU-based horizontal scaling for Mule applications to make them responsive to CPU usage by automatically scaling up or down the deployment replicas as needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure CPU-based horizontal scaling for Mule applications to make them responsive to CPU usage by automatically scaling up or down the deployment replicas as needed.
```

To configure horizontal autoscaling for Mule apps deployed to CloudHub 2.0, follow these steps:

. From Anypoint Platform, select *Runtime Manager* > *Applications*.
. Click *Deploy application*.
. In the *Runtime* tab, check the *Enable CPU Based Horizontal Autoscaling* box.
. Set the minimum and maximum *Replica Count* limits.
. Select the *Replica Size* from the dropdown menu.
+
Integration-Advanced customers can select from `Micro`, `Micro.Mem`, and `Small` replica sizes. Customers on other tiers can select from `Micro`and `Micro.Mem` replica sizes. For more information, see xref:general::pricing.adoc#cloudhub-2-0-application-deployment[CloudHub 2.0 Application Deployment].
. Click *Deploy Application*.

image::ch2-config-autoscaling.png[Configure horizontal autoscaling]

== Autoscaling Status and Logs

When an autoscaling event occurs and your Mule application with horizontal autoscaling scales up, you can check the *Scaling* status by clicking *View status* in your application's details window. You can also see your application’s *Scaling* status in the *Applications* list.

image::ch2-status-autoscaling.png[Check the application's scaling status.]

> You can track the scaled-up replicas startup and the number of replicas your application scaled from and to by checking the application's logs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To track the scaled-up replicas startup and the number of replicas your application scaled from and to, check the application's logs:
```

. From Anypoint Platform, select *Runtime Manager* > *Applications*.
. Click the row of the application with autoscaling.
. Click *Manage application*.
. Select the *Logs* tab.

> [source,console,linenums]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Example application log
[source,console,linenums]
```
Please check if this renders properly, but I think a title presenting the logs would be useful.

----
Info	8 minutes ago - 2023-11-08 14:35:01.466 PST - Runtime Manager
Application id:<app-ID> scaled UP from 1 to 2 replicas.
Info	a minute ago - 2023-11-08 14:41:24.819 PST - Runtime Manager
Application id:<app-ID> scaled DOWN from 2 to 1 replicas. :
----

> You can also track when autoscaling events occur through xref:access-management::audit-logging.adoc[Audit Logs] in Access Management. Each time an application deployment scales, an audit log is published under the product *Runtime Manager*, by user *Anypoint Staff*. The log has *Action* set to `Scaling`, and the *Object* is the application ID.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can track autoscaling events through xref:access-management::audit-logging.adoc[Audit Logs] in Access Management. Each time an application deployment scales, an audit log is published under the product *Runtime Manager*, by user *Anypoint Staff*. The log has *Action* set to `Scaling`, and the *Object* is the application ID.
```

----

== Understand CPU-Based Autoscaling Policy

MuleSoft owns and applies the https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/run-application/horizontal-pod-autoscale/[autoscaling^] policy for your Mule application deployments.

The CPU-based HPA policy used for all Mule apps deployed to CloudHub 2.0 is as follows:

----
apiVersion: autoscaling/v2
kind: HorizontalPodAutoscaler
metadata:
  name: my-app
  namespace: app-namespace
spec:
  behavior:
    scaleDown:
      policies:
      - periodSeconds: 15
        type: Percent
        value: 100
      selectPolicy: Max
      stabilizationWindowSeconds: 1800
    scaleUp:
      policies:
      - periodSeconds: 180
        type: Percent
        value: 100
      selectPolicy: Max
      stabilizationWindowSeconds: 0
  maxReplicas: 3
  metrics:
  - resource:
      name: cpu
      target:
        averageUtilization: 70
        type: Utilization
    type: Resource
  minReplicas: 1
  scaleTargetRef:
    apiVersion: apps/v1
    kind: Deployment
    name: my-app
----

Some points to consider:

> * Scale-up can occur, at most, every 180 seconds. Up to 100% of the currently running replicas may be added until the maximum configured replicas are reached. There is no stabilization window for scaling up. The target scales up immediately after the metrics indicate a scale-up is needed. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Scale-up can occur, at most, every 180 seconds. CloudHub 2.0 might add up to 100% of the currently running replicas until reaching the maximum configured replicas. There is no stabilization window for scaling up. The target scales up immediately after the metrics indicate a scale-up is needed. 
```
Please check if this suggestion is accurate.

> * Scale-down can occur, at most, every 15 seconds. Up to 100% of the currently running replicas may be removed, which means the scaling target can be scaled down to the minimum allowed replicas. The number of replicas removed is based on the aggregated calculations over the past 1800 seconds of the stabilization window.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Scale-down can occur, at most, every 15 seconds. Horizontal autoscaling might remove up to 100% of the currently running replicas, scaling down the target to the minimum allowed replicas. The number of replicas removed is based on the aggregated calculations over the past 1800 seconds of the stabilization window.
```
Please check if this suggestion is accurate.

Author: Yes! Only that it’s HPA, not CH2 that adds/removes the replicas.

Min replicas: +

* The minimum number of replicas guaranteed to run at any given moment.
* Scale-down policy should never remove replicas below this number.

Max replicas: +

* The maximum number of capped replicas. No more replicas can be added above this number for scaling up.
* Scale-up policy should never add replicas above this number.

== Performance Considerations

For a successful horizontal autoscaling of your Mule apps, review the following performance considerations:

* Mule apps that scale based on CPU usage are a good fit for CPU-based HPA. For example: 
** HTTP/HTTPS applications with async requests.
** Reverse Proxies.

> ** Low latency+High throughput applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** Applications with low latency and high throughput.
```

** DataWeave Transformations.
** APIKit Routing.
** API Gateways with policies.

> * Non-reentrant applications that don't have built-in parallel processing such as batch jobs, scheduler applications without re-entrance and duplicate scheduling across applications, and low-throughput, high-latency applications with large requests are not a good fit for CPU-based HPA.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Non-reentrant applications that don't have built-in parallel processing such as batch jobs, scheduler applications without re-entrance and duplicate scheduling across applications, and applications with low throughput and high latency with large requests are not a good fit for CPU-based HPA.
```

= Configuring Horizontal Autoscaling (HPA) for CloudHub 2.0 Deployments
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

[IMPORTANT]

> This feature applies only to select customers in the US control plane who are opted in to the new pricing and packaging model. For more details, visit xref:general::pricing.adoc[]

Reviewer 2: On the Note: Why specify US control plane -- can we just say for customers opted into the new P&P? This feature applies only to select customers who are opted in to the new pricing and packaging model. For more details, visit general::pricing.adoc

You can configure CPU-based horizontal scaling for Mule applications to make them responsive to CPU usage by automatically scaling up or down the deployment replicas as needed.

In Kubernetes, a Horizontal Pod Autoscaler (HPA) automatically updates a workload resource, with the aim of automatically scaling the workload to match demand. Horizontal scaling means that the response to increased load is to deploy more pods. For more information, visit the https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/run-application/horizontal-pod-autoscale[Kubernetes documentaton^]. 

== Configure Horizontal Pod Autoscaling

To configure horizontal autoscaling for Mule apps deployed to CloudHub 2.0, follow these steps:

. From Anypoint Platform, select *Runtime Manager* > *Applications*.
. Click *Deploy application*.
. In the *Runtime* tab, check the *Enable Autoscaling* box.

> . Set the minimum and maximum *Replica Count* limits.

Reviewer 2: Can we add a step after this to :
Choose Replica Size. Integration-Advanced customers can choose from Micro, Micro.Mem and Small replica sizes.  Customers on other tiers can choose from Micro, Micro.Mem replica sizes. [Link to CloudHub2.0 replica size options in the new P&P: https://docs.mulesoft.com/general/pricing#cloudhub-2-0-application-deployment]

The CPU-based HPA policy used for all Mule apps deployed to CloudHub 2.0 is as follows:

----
apiVersion: autoscaling/v2
kind: HorizontalPodAutoscaler
metadata:
  name: my-app
  namespace: app-namespace
spec:
  behavior:
    scaleDown:
      policies:
      - periodSeconds: 15
        type: Percent
        value: 100
      selectPolicy: Max
      stabilizationWindowSeconds: 1800
    scaleUp:
      policies:
      - periodSeconds: 180
        type: Percent
        value: 100
      selectPolicy: Max
      stabilizationWindowSeconds: 0
  maxReplicas: 3
  metrics:
  - resource:
      name: cpu
      target:
        averageUtilization: 70
        type: Utilization
    type: Resource
  minReplicas: 1
  scaleTargetRef:
    apiVersion: apps/v1
    kind: Deployment
    name: my-app
----

Some points to consider:

Scale up can occur at most every 180 seconds. Each period, up to 100% of the currently running replicas may be added until the maximum configured replicas is reached. For scaling up there is no stabilization window. When the metrics indicate that the target should be scaled up, the target is scaled up immediately.

> Scale down can occur at most every 15 seconds. Each Period, up to 100% of the currently running replicas may be removed which means the scaling target can be scaled down to the minimum allowed replicas. The number of replicas removed is based on the aggregated calculations over the past 300 seconds of the stabilization window.

Reviewer 2: Since the stabilizationWindowSeconds has changed from 300 to 1800 in the policy above, it should change in this sentence as well. 

Change text: Scale down can occur at most every 15 seconds. Each Period, up to 100% of the currently running replicas may be removed which means the scaling target can be scaled down to the minimum allowed replicas. The number of replicas removed is based on the aggregated calculations over the past 1800 seconds of the stabilization window.

Min replicas +

* The minimum number of replicas that would be guaranteed to run at any given point of time.
* Scale down policy would never remove replicas below this number.

Max replicas +

* The maximum number of replicas that are capped, beyond which no more replicas can be added for scale up.
* Scale up policy would never add replicas above this number.

== Performance Considerations and Limitations

For a successful horizontal autoscaling of your Mule apps, review the following performance considerations:

* Mule apps that scale based on CPU usage are a good fit with CPU based HPA. For example: 
** HTTP/HTTPS applications with async requests.
** Reverse Proxies.
** Low latency+High throughput applications.
** Dataweave Transformations.
** APIKit Routing.
** API Gateways with policies.
* Non-reentrant applications that do not have built-in parallel processing such as batch jobs, scheduler applications without re-entrancy and duplicate scheduling across applications, and low-throughput, high-latency applications with large requests are not a good fit with CPU-based HPA.

=== Limitations

There are some limitations to consider:

> * CPU-based HPA works for micro and micro memory-intensive xref:general::pricing.adoc#cloudhub-2-0-application-deployment[replica sizes] for customers on Integration - Starter.

Reviewer 2: Missing that Integration - Advanced customers can also use 'Small' replica sizes. 

also instead of having these 2 under limitations section, let us move it under the Configure Horizontal Pod Autoscaling section (as mentioned in another comment). We can remove the "Limitations" section then.
